my name is Mike gelser I'm the product
manager for lip p-to-p if you're working
on lip p-to-p or if you've touched it in
any way I think I've talked to you by
now I've really made an effort to reach
out every person I'm presenting from a
seated position just because of my ankle
as some of you may have noticed I've and
have this cast on it so anyway I just
want to do five minutes on this was my
thought for the presentation I'm just
gonna repeat back to people what I've
heard from everyone and don't worry I'm
not gonna use your name or anything if
you said something negative about lippy
to fisa don't be concerned about that
but I'm just gonna repeat back kind of
what I've heard and I'm hoping that that
will spark some ongoing discussions so I
divide this into two parts the present
state of Lib p2p and the future state in
terms of the present state of Lib p2p
number one thing I've heard is about
documentation and specs so you know one
court I heard was there so many concepts
very few explanations there are
questions about what what are the
boundaries of Lib p2p versus what's in I
P FS like where exactly is the line
drawn there's also you know some parts
of the specs repo need need like they're
incomplete like this section is is blank
and and examples and tutorials so this
is an area where I really want to focus
as a product manager I really want to
put resources on doing more with the
documentation and specs and just
generally making it easier for other
projects to use lit p2p this is feedback
I've heard outside of this room too
we have some different projects like
some folks from it there's several
groups from aetherium for example who
are interested in using live p2p and
they have some of these same same
questions so there was also a good
discussion about em Plex and stream
muxing it's I am typing up a github
issue where I'm gonna put all the
details into it so I'm not gonna I'm not
gonna try to describe it here
but in general the questions were about
speedy versus EM Plex and different
implementations having different
preferences for that and I'm going to
try some summarize this in the github
issue that I'll put up on lib p2p /lu
p2p so Jenica is a general cross
language issue and also some questions
about goals and roadmap for limb p2p
came up so let me talk a little bit
about future of limb p2p a big thing
that I think we need to focus on are
more exotic transports there's a lot of
interest from people in having kind of
unconventional transports like
person-to-person
Bluetooth or person-to-person Wi-Fi a
lot you know a lot of ways to route
traffic even in places that don't have
internet or don't have reliable internet
at a particular point in time the stream
of seeing I won't cover it again I mean
basically we're gonna try to land quick
sue and hopefully over the next couple
months
that's a UDP based protocol that would
solve a lot of our problems with having
too many TCP connections but we're
always going to need to have a TCP
fallback so so then that was where the
discussion about implicate and speedy
and HTTP 2 and again that's what I'm
going to summarize in a in a github
issue so I won't go into it here I
talked a little bit to folks who are
involved with the web RTC with the Jas
stuff and specifically about WebRTC
versus WebSockets I heard some you know
differing opinions I think so you know
some people were concerned that WebRTC
doesn't scale well to a large number of
peers so you know I don't know that's a
that kind of gets into the larger issue
of scalability testing and then
standardized interfaces is another one
so should every language implementation
of Lib p2p implements some common set of
interfaces and if so if so in what
language should we define our house what
IDL what interface Stef
in language should we use to define that
implementation and the last topic was
questions about collaborations with the
rest of the community
there was an idea for something called
the nursery I won't go into it now but
basically the ideas shared
implementations of low level building
blocks and should those be in lit p2p
should they be community efforts outside
of lit p2p and how should the two
interact so we didn't get to answers
just questions there I think most of you
who are interested saw ones ideas about
standardized interfaces so I'm not going
to dwell on this slide too much he put
this up in a gist so you can find it
it's in the Lisbon channel the last
thing I'll say is we're gonna do a
developer's meeting in Berlin in July I
think most you've heard about this by
now if you haven't we're gonna be doing
two days of live p2p it's July 12 and
July 13 so Thursday and Friday in Berlin
and the structure of the conference
right now is I'm gonna plan out some
talks in advance and and wrangle some of
you you in this room to give this talk
some lighting talks for the first for
day one so that's what you see on the o
it day one day two didn't show up but
the first rectangle the leftmost
rectangle is day one and then we're
gonna have some discussion then we're
gonna have lunch then we're gonna have
some discussions in the afternoon day
two is wide open right now so I'm I'm
interested in any any suggestions anyone
has please don't give them like right in
this forum but you can either post you
can open an issue in that conference
repo or of course you can email me and
yeah we just love people's feedback so
okay that's everything I have thank you
[Applause]